docs: bring functional docs from eDocs project (#630)
empathyco/x: packages/x-components/static-docs/experience-search-&-discovery/search-box.md

---
title: Search Box UI
---

# Search Box UI

The Search&nbsp;Box UI Component is the main entry point for search where shoppers can type what
they're looking for in your shop. It usually includes an input field, a search button, and a clear
button.

<img :src="$withBase('/assets/media/xcomponents_func_searchbox.svg')" alt="Search Box"> <br>

::: interact Can't quite capture the concept? Learn more about
[Search Box](../overview/search-box-overview.md). :::

It can be combined with other X&nbsp;Components, such as [Query Suggestions](query-suggestions.md)

> or [Next Queries](next-queries.md), to modify the query syntax according to your shoppers’

Author: I suggest a new one

```suggestion
or [Next Queries](next-queries.md), to show the updated query selected on other components’
```

> or [Next Queries](next-queries.md), to modify the query syntax according to your shoppers’

Reviewer: The third one! Trying to not forget that the purpose of providing different types of search suggestions is to meet user intent:
```suggestion
or [Next Queries](next-queries.md), to update the query according to shoppers’ intent or
```

  - The query suggestions are cleared
  - The next queries are not cleared
  - The related tags are cleared
  - The searched query is displayed in history queries

- _Using **instant search and a query is being typed** that has results_:

  - No results are displayed before debounce time
  - Results are displayed after debounce time
  - Next queries are displayed after debounce time
  - Related tags are displayed after debounce time

- _Using **instant search and modifying the initial query**_:
  - No results related to the second query are displayed before debounce time
  - Results related to the second query are displayed after debounce time
  - Displayed results are different from the previous ones

::: warning Deactivating instant search means History Queries are not updated until the search
button or Enter key is pressed, since the typed query is not submitted until one of these two
actions is performed. :::

## Tailor the web experience

- Configure the position and place it wherever you prefer.
- Customize content. Allow shoppers to search or clear their search using text or icons.
- Determine the number of characters shoppers can enter in the search input.

> - Autofocus the input field when the search&nbsp;box is clicked.

Reviewer 2: The `autofocus` is intended to focus when the component is "rendered", which means when it is displayed. Not when clicked, because when clicked it always get the focus, even if it is not an X component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Autofocus the input field when the search&nbsp;box is displayed.
```

> - Auto-accept the query without the need of using a search button or the Enter key. Determine the

Reviewer 2: This is "instant search"  I wouldn't invent new names for an already defined concept.  You can explain the concept if you want, but not giving it a new name.

Reviewer: Yes, but here we're describing the action that implies instant search (which is also specifically referred at the end of the sentence). By starting the sentence with _instant search_, we're breaking consistency in the bullet list structure (in other words, parallelism) :)
